Document troubleshooting with `kernel-next` (#736)
QubesOS/qubes-doc: troubleshooting/newer-hardware-troubleshooting.md

---
layout: doc
title: Troubleshooting newer hardware
permalink: /doc/newer-hardware-troubleshooting/
---

Troubleshooting newer hardware
==============================

By default, the kernel that is installed in dom0 comes from the `kernel` package, which is an older Linux LTS kernel.

> For most cases this works fine since the Qubes OS developers backport fixes to this kernel, but for some newer hardware, you may run into issues.

Reviewer: To be precise, Linux kernel developers does that - see https://www.kernel.org/category/releases.html

For example, the audio might not work if the sound card is too new for the LTS kernel.

To fix this, you can try the `kernel-latest` package - though be aware that it's less tested!
In dom0:

~~~
sudo qubes-dom0-update kernel-latest
~~~

Reboot when it's done installing.
You can double-check that the boot used the newer kernel with `uname -r`, which prints the version of the currently-running kernel.

> Compare this with the output of `rpm -qi kernel | grep Version`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Compare this with the output of `rpm -q kernel`.
```
